[Doc Feature][Meeting AI Insights API][4439906] (#12758)
MicrosoftDocs/msteams-docs: msteams-platform/graph-api/meeting-transcripts/meeting-insights.md

---
title: Graph APIs to Fetch Meeting Insights

> description: Learn how to use the Meeting AI Insights API to fetch Teams meeting insights including conversation summaries, action items, and @mention utterances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use the Meeting AI Insights API to fetch Teams meeting insights including conversation summaries, action items, and mentions.
```

ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.owner: vichug
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.date: 05/15/2025
---

# Get AI-generated meeting summaries with Meeting AI Insights API

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> * Meeting AI Insights API is available under the beta version in Microsoft Graph. For more information, see [versioning, support, and breaking change policies for Microsoft Graph](/graph/versioning-and-support#beta-version).
> * Meeting AI Insights API is part of the Microsoft 365 Copilot API namespace. Insights can only be fetched on behalf of a Microsoft 365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#license-requirements-for-teams-meeting-ai-insights-apis).

The Meeting AI Insights API enables you to programmatically access structured AI-generated insights from transcribed Microsoft Teams meetings. These insights include:

* Comprehensive conversation summaries
* Action items extracted from the discussion

> * Participant-specific @mention utterances

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Utterances where participants were directly mentioned
```

The API empowers you to deliver intelligent meeting experiences, such as surfacing key takeaways or generating follow-ups, without the need to build or maintain your own AI infrastructure. Insights are generated after the meeting concludes and are accessible through Microsoft Graph API endpoints.

> [!NOTE]

> > Meeting AI Insights API provides insights only for scheduled meetings on the calendar and private chat and channel meetings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Meeting AI Insights API provides insights only for private scheduled meetings.
```

        {
          "id": "VjEj...",
          "callId": "af630fe0-04d3-4559-8cf9-91fe45e36296",
          "contentCorrelationId": "bc842d7a-2f6e-4b18-a1c7-73ef91d5c8e3",
          "createdDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z",
          "endDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    | Property | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `id` | A unique identifier for the generated AI insight object. |
    | `callId` | A unique identifier for the call during which this insight is generated. |
    | `contentCorrelationId` | A unique identifier that correlates the [transcript](/graph/api/resources/calltranscript?&view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) of the meeting from which the AI insight object is generated. |
    | `createdDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript was created. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). |
    | `endDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript ends. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in UTC. |

> 1. Each AI insight object provides detailed meeting notes, action items, and participant-specific @mention utterances, which can be accessed by calling [GET AI Insights API](/graph/api/callaiinsight-get?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) for a specific insight object ID. Here's an example request and response:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Each AI insight object provides detailed meeting notes, action items, and participant-specific mentions, which can be accessed by calling [GET AI Insights API](/graph/api/callaiinsight-get?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) for a specific insight object ID. Here's an example request and response:
```

        },
      ],
      "viewpoint": {
        "mentionEvents": [
          {
            "speaker": {
                "application": null,
                "device": null,
                "user": {
                    "@odata.type": "#Microsoft.Teams.GraphSvc.teamworkUserIdentity",
                    "id": "9a7608d3-53e4-4a92-804f-ef43f1e5f5b5",
                    "displayName": "John Smith",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser",
                    "tenantId": "d1aeb56e-5a25-4d91-a4f6-0f5e6a50d887"
                }
            },
            "eventDateTime": "2024-05-21T09:00:00",
            "transcriptUtterance": "We need to get approval from Sarah Johnson before proceeding with the budget allocation."
          },
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

    | Property | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `meetingNotes` | Contains detailed notes of the meeting discussion as generated by Microsoft Teams Copilot. The notes include a title, summary, and detailed subpoints of the discussion. |
    | `actionItems` | Contains the action items generated from the meeting conversation. The action items include a summary of the action item and the assigned owner. |

>     | `viewpoint.mentionEvents` | Contains participant-specific information from the conversation, including @mention utterances with the timestamps in the meeting when a user is mentioned, the speaker, and the utterance details. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `viewpoint.mentionEvents` | Contains participant-specific information from the conversation, including mentions with the timestamps in the meeting when a user is mentioned, the speaker, and the utterance details. |
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> * Meeting AI Insights API is available under the beta version in Microsoft Graph. For more information, see [versioning, support, and breaking change policies for Microsoft Graph](/graph/versioning-and-support#beta-version).
> * Meeting AI Insights API is part of the Microsoft 365 Copilot API namespace. Insights can only be fetched on behalf of a Microsoft 365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#license-requirements-for-teams-meeting-ai-insights-apis).

The Meeting AI Insights API enables you to programmatically access structured AI-generated insights from transcribed Microsoft Teams meetings. These insights include:

* Comprehensive conversation summaries
* Action items extracted from the discussion
* Participant-specific @mention utterances

The API empowers you to deliver intelligent meeting experiences, such as surfacing key takeaways or generating follow-ups, without the need to build or maintain your own AI infrastructure. Insights are generated after the meeting concludes and are accessible through Microsoft Graph API endpoints.

> [!NOTE]

> > Meeting AI Insights API is only available for organizers and presenters of a town hall meeting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Meeting AI Insights API currently provides insights only for scheduled private meetings
```

| Generate executive briefings for strategic meetings | Executives participate in multiple high-level meetings across functions such as finance, operations, or board reviews. They need quick, reliable summaries to stay up-to-date and take action. | You can create a digital assistant to call the Graph API after the designated executive meetings conclude to retrieve insights, prioritize key decisions and blockers, and format them into a concise daily briefing card. This card is posted to the executive's Teams chat or sent as a morning email summary. The integration can optionally highlight recurring themes using keyword clustering across meetings. | - Improves executive focus and decision velocity.<br>- Reduces reliance on manual note-taking and follow-ups. Enables faster cross-functional awareness. |

## Prerequisites

> * You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options](/microsoftteams/manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You must [turn on the transcription or recording](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/office/view-live-transcription-in-microsoft-teams-meetings-dc1a8f23-2e20-4684-885e-2152e06a4a8b) for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. Alternatively, you can set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord programmatically using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options](/microsoftteams/manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically).
```

    **Request**

    ```http
    GET /copilot/users/{userId}/onlineMeetings/{onlineMeetingId}/aiInsights
    ```

    **Response**

    ```json
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    
    {
      "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#copilot/users('000000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000')/onlineMeetings('00000...')/aiInsights",
      "@odata.count": 1,
      "value": [
        {
          "id": "VjEj...",
          "callId": "af630fe0-04d3-4559-8cf9-91fe45e36296",
          "contentCorrelationId": "bc842d7a-2f6e-4b18-a1c7-73ef91d5c8e3",
          "createdDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z",
          "endDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    | Property | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `id` | A unique identifier for the generated AI insight object. |

>     | `callId` | A unique identifier for the [call](/graph/api/resources/call?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true) during which this insight is generated. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    | `callId` | Unique identifier of the call. |
```

                }
            },
            "eventDateTime": "2024-05-21T09:00:00",
            "transcriptUtterance": "We need to get approval from Sarah Johnson before proceeding with the budget allocation."
          },
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

    | Property | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `meetingNotes` | Contains detailed notes of the meeting discussion as generated by Microsoft Teams Copilot. The notes include a title, summary, and detailed subpoints of the discussion. |
    | `actionItems` | Contains the action items generated from the meeting conversation. The action items include a summary of the action item and the assigned owner. |
    | `viewpoint.mentionEvents` | Contains participant-specific information from the conversation, including @mention utterances with the timestamps in the meeting when a user is mentioned, the speaker, and the utterance details. |

## Limitations

* AI-generated insights are only available after a meeting ends. The API doesn't support accessing live notes during a meeting.

* AI-generated insights might take up to four hours to be available after the call ends.

* Application-level permissions aren't supported.

> * Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN) calls aren't supported.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Only private scheduled meetings are currently supported.
```

> * Only private scheduled meetings are currently supported.

Reviewer 3: @vikramjit-singh-chug this seems wrong. Private scheduled meetings?  Perhaps this should say `all scheduled meetings on the user's calendar + all private chat and channel meetings.`

Author: I've removed this limitation as it is a repeat of the same information that is in the introductory paragraph of the article, @kanchm. I've updated the limitation as per your suggestion.

---
title: Graph APIs to Fetch Meeting Insights
description: Learn how to use the Meeting AI Insights API to fetch Teams meeting insights including conversation summaries, action items, and @mention utterances.
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.owner: vichug
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.date: 05/09/2025
---

# Get meeting AI insights and summaries with Meeting AI Insights API

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> * AI-generated meeting insights fetched through Meeting AI Insights API are only available in [public developer preview](../../resources/dev-preview/developer-preview-intro.md).
> * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot API namespace. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-requirements-for-meeting-apis).

The Meeting AI Insights API enables developers to programmatically access structured insights derived from transcribed Microsoft Teams meetings. These AI-generated insights include:
* Comprehensive conversation summaries
* Action items extracted from the discussion

> * Participant-specific @mention utterances
> This API empowers developers to deliver intelligent meeting experiences—such as surfacing key takeaways or generating follow-ups—without the need to build or maintain their own AI infrastructure. Insights are generated after the meeting concludes and are accessible via Microsoft Graph API endpoints. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Participant-specific @mention utterances

This API empowers developers to deliver intelligent meeting experiences—such as surfacing key takeaways or generating follow-ups—without the need to build or maintain their own AI infrastructure. Insights are generated after the meeting concludes and are accessible via Microsoft Graph API endpoints. 
```

The API empowers you to deliver intelligent meeting experiences, such as surfacing key takeaways or generating follow-ups, without the need to build or maintain your own AI infrastructure. Insights are generated after the meeting concludes and are accessible through Microsoft Graph API endpoints.

> [!NOTE]

> > Meeting AI Insights API provides insights only for private scheduled meetings.

Reviewer 3: @slava-tar could you review this?  Private Scheduled Meetings?

Reviewer 3: Resolving this for addressing later.

Author: @kanchm, I'm resolving this conversation based on [Slava's comment]( https://teams.microsoft.com/l/message/19:meeting_M2JlNDY4MzItYWQ3YS00MzZmLTg3Y2QtMmYyNTAwYzMwMGFh@thread.v2/1747418831273?context=%7B%22contextType%22%3A%22chat%22%7D).

> The API provides AI-generated insights for all meetings and calls for which a recap is available, including scheduled private and channel meetings, one-on-one and group Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls, webinars, and adhoc meetings.

Reviewer 3: @vikramjit-singh-chug does this list need updating?

Author: @kanchm, the list is now updated as per your suggestions.

> The API provides AI-generated insights for all meetings and calls for which a recap is available, including scheduled private and channel meetings, one-on-one and group Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls, webinars, and adhoc meetings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the API provides access to AI-generated insights only for scheduled private meetings.
```

> The API provides AI-generated insights for all meetings and calls for which a recap is available, including scheduled private and channel meetings, one-on-one and group Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls, webinars, and adhoc meetings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> [!NOTE]
> Meeting AI Insights API is only available for organizers and presenters of a town hall meeting.

> ## Use cases

Reviewer 3: Should we mention that AI Insights generation is triggered by the user from Teams UI (on-demand) or in 4-hours and only then these APIs will return values? 

For diagnosing issues, do we have a section? It would be good to confirm that AI Insights are available in Teams if the API does not return values because of the above delay.

Reviewer 2: I think that might be too much detail for these docs. We've added the 4 hour delay. Even if the client has the recap, our API may still not return the results so cannot provide that in the diagnostic section as well

| Generate executive briefings for strategic meetings | Executives participate in multiple high-level meetings across functions such as finance, operations, or board reviews. They need quick, reliable summaries to stay up-to-date and take action. | You can create a digital assistant to call the Graph API after the designated executive meetings conclude to retrieve insights, prioritize key decisions and blockers, and format them into a concise daily briefing card. This card is posted to the executive's Teams chat or sent as a morning email summary. The integration can optionally highlight recurring themes using keyword clustering across meetings. | - Improves executive focus and decision velocity.<br>- Reduces reliance on manual note-taking and follow-ups. Enables faster cross-functional awareness. |

## Prerequisites

> * You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options] (../manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically)
```

> * You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options] (../manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically)

Reviewer 2: please check if the meeting options link works correctly

    **Request**

    ```http
    GET /copilot/users/{userId}/onlineMeetings/{onlineMeetingId}/aiInsights
    ```

    **Response**

    ```json
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    
    {
      "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#copilot/users('000000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000')/onlineMeetings('00000...')/aiInsights",
      "@odata.count": 1,
      "value": [
        {
          "id": "VjEj...",
          "callId": "af630fe0-04d3-4559-8cf9-91fe45e36296",
          "contentCorrelationId": "bc842d7a-2f6e-4b18-a1c7-73ef91d5c8e3",
          "createdDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z",
          "endDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    | Property | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `id` | A unique identifier for the generated AI insight object. |

>     | `callId` | A unique identifier for the [call](/graph/api/resources/call?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true) during which this insight is generated. |

Reviewer 3: I don't think this is accurate. It is not related to the PMA call leg id that is provided in that Call object.

Reviewer 3: We should state it as "Unique identifier of the call." as other resources say.

---
title: Graph APIs to Fetch Meeting Insights
description: Learn how to use the Meeting AI Insights API to fetch Teams meeting insights including conversation summaries, action items, and @mention utterances.
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.owner: vichug
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.date: 05/09/2025
---

# Get meeting AI insights and summaries with Meeting AI Insights API

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> * AI-generated meeting insights fetched through Meeting AI Insights API are only available in [public developer preview](../../resources/dev-preview/developer-preview-intro.md).

> > * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot API namespace. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-requirements-for-meeting-apis).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot API namespace. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#license-requirements-for-teams-meeting-ai-insights-apis).
```

| Generate executive briefings for strategic meetings | Executives participate in multiple high-level meetings across functions such as finance, operations, or board reviews. They need quick, reliable summaries to stay up-to-date and take action. | You can create a digital assistant to call the Graph API after the designated executive meetings conclude to retrieve insights, prioritize key decisions and blockers, and format them into a concise daily briefing card. This card is posted to the executive's Teams chat or sent as a morning email summary. The integration can optionally highlight recurring themes using keyword clustering across meetings. | - Improves executive focus and decision velocity.<br>- Reduces reliance on manual note-taking and follow-ups. Enables faster cross-functional awareness. |

## Prerequisites

> * You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options](../manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options](/microsoftteams/manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically)
```

> * You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options] (../manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options](../manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically)
```

          "callId": "af630fe0-04d3-4559-8cf9-91fe45e36296",
          "contentCorrelationId": "bc842d7a-2f6e-4b18-a1c7-73ef91d5c8e3",
          "createdDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z",
          "endDateTime": "2025-05-09T08:17:10.7261294Z"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    | Property | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `id` | A unique identifier for the generated insight. |
    | `callId` | A unique identifier for the [call](/graph/api/resources/call?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true) during which this insight is generated. |
    | `contentCorrelationId` | A unique identifier that correlates the [transcript](/graph/api/resources/calltranscript?&view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) from which the insight is generated. |
    | `createdDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript was created. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). |
    | `endDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript ends. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in UTC. |

> 1. Each insight object provides detailed meeting notes, action items, and participant-specific @mention utterances, which can be accessed by calling AI Insights API for a specific insight object ID. Here's an example response:

Author: Updated the link, @vikramjit-singh-chug.

---
title: Graph APIs to Fetch Meeting Insights
description: Learn how to use the Meeting AI Insights API to fetch Teams meeting insights including conversation summaries, action items, and @mention utterances.
ms.localizationpriority: high
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.owner: vichug
ms.author: surbhigupta
ms.date: 05/09/2025
---

# Get meeting AI insights and summaries with Meeting AI Insights API

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> * AI-generated meeting insights fetched through Meeting AI Insights API are only available in [public developer preview](../../resources/dev-preview/developer-preview-intro.md).

> > * Meeting AI Insights API is a metered API. For more information, see [payment models for meeting APIs](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-models-for-meeting-apis).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot APIs. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-requirements-for-meeting-apis).
```

> > * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot APIs. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-requirements-for-meeting-apis).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot APIs. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-requirements-for-meeting-apis).
```

> > * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot APIs. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-requirements-for-meeting-apis).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> * Meeting AI Insights API is part of M365 Copilot API namespace. Results can only be fetched on behalf of a M365 Copilot licensed user. For more information, see [license requirements for Meeting Insights API](/graph/teams-licenses#payment-requirements-for-meeting-apis).
```

Meeting AI Insights API allows you to use smart meeting features, such as highlighting key takeaways or creating follow-up tasks from meeting insights and summaries, without needing to build or maintain your own AI infrastructure. You can use the API to get AI-generated insights from a transcribed Microsoft Teams meeting after it ends. The AI-generated insights include:

* Comprehensive conversation summaries
* Action items extracted from the discussion
* Participant-specific @mention utterances

> Meeting AI Insights API provides AI-generated insights for all meetings and calls for which a recap is available, including scheduled private and channel meetings, one-on-one and group Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls, webinars, and adhoc meetings.

Author: @vikramjit-singh-chug, can you please confirm this?

> Meeting AI Insights API provides AI-generated insights for all meetings and calls for which a recap is available, including scheduled private and channel meetings, one-on-one and group Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls, webinars, and adhoc meetings.

Author: I'm resolving this comment as the content has been updated based on Slava's inputs.

> Meeting AI Insights API allows you to use smart meeting features, such as highlighting key takeaways or creating follow-up tasks from meeting insights and summaries, without needing to build or maintain your own AI infrastructure. You can use the API to get AI-generated insights from a transcribed Microsoft Teams meeting after it ends. The AI-generated insights include:
> 
> * Comprehensive conversation summaries
> * Action items extracted from the discussion
> * Participant-specific @mention utterances
> 
> Meeting AI Insights API provides AI-generated insights for all meetings and calls for which a recap is available, including scheduled private and channel meetings, one-on-one and group Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls, webinars, and adhoc meetings.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Meeting AI Insights API enables developers to programmatically access structured insights derived from transcribed Microsoft Teams meetings. These AI-generated insights include:
* Comprehensive conversation summaries
* Action items extracted from the discussion
* Participant-specific @mention utterances
This API empowers developers to deliver intelligent meeting experiences—such as surfacing key takeaways or generating follow-ups—without the need to build or maintain their own AI infrastructure. Insights are generated after the meeting concludes and are accessible via Microsoft Graph API endpoints. 
Meeting AI Insights API provides AI-generated insights for all meetings and calls for which a recap is available, including scheduled private and channel meetings, one-on-one and group Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) calls, webinars, and adhoc meetings.
```

* The Meeting AI Insights API only works with delegated permissions and hence requires a token from a signed-in user to be passed in the call. The signed-in user must have a [Microsoft 365 Copilot license](/copilot/microsoft-365/microsoft-365-copilot-licensing) and access to the meeting’s transcript file.

## Fetch meeting insights

To fetch the insights of a particular meeting, follow these steps:

1. If you don’t have the `meetingId`, call online meeting API with the `JoinWebUrl` property to retrieve the `meetingId`. For more information, see [retrieve an online meeting by JoinWebUrl](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http#example-3-retrieve-an-online-meeting-by-joinweburl).

1. Each transcript event of the meeting creates an associated [AI insight object](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-list-aiinsights?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true). Use the [List AI Insights API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-list-aiinsights?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) to fetch all insight objects related to the meeting and use the included metadata in the response to select the relevant object for your scenario. Here's an example response:

>     ```json

Reviewer 3: Adding the request URL would be good. Same for other cases below.

Reviewer 3: Or remove the request/responses and make the dev go over to the reference section. Seems duplication would result in them diverging.

Reviewer 2: Can we add the Request instead of having the reader go to reference docs? I like the self-contained approach.
@v-kushals : Can you please add the request from the reference doc here?

Author: Updated, @vikramjit-singh-chug.

    | `contentCorrelationId` | A unique identifier that correlates the [transcript](/graph/api/resources/calltranscript?&view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) from which the insight is generated. |
    | `createdDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript was created. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). |
    | `endDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript ends. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in UTC. |

1. Each insight object provides detailed meeting notes, action items, and participant-specific @mention utterances, which can be accessed by calling AI Insights API for a specific insight object ID. Here's an example response:

    ```json
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-type: application/json
    
    {
      "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#copilot/users('b935e675-5e67-48b9-8d45-249d5f88e964')/onlineMeetings('YTc3OT...')/aiInsights/$entity",
      "id": "Z2HWbT...",
      "callId": "af630fe0-04d3-4559-8cf9-91fe45e36296",

>       "contentCorrelationId": "bc842d7a-2f6e-4b18-a1c7-73ef91d5c8e3",

Reviewer 3: Let's highlight the contentCorrelationId and how that can be used to determine which recording produced the AI Insights. There are multiple instances of these objects (recordings, transcripts, AI Insights) and this content correlation id helps tie them together.

Reviewer 2: @v-kushals : Can you please add the following in the table:

contentCorrelationId	A unique identifier that correlates the [transcript](https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/calltranscript?&view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) from which the insight is generated.

Author: @kanchm, I'm resolving this comment as Vikramjit has already updated this content.

                    "id": "6aeb9f22-c986-4835-9617-9e5932bc8250",
                    "displayName": "Emily Davis",
                    "userIdentityType": "aadUser",
                    "tenantId": "d1aeb56e-5a25-4d91-a4f6-0f5e6a50d887"
                }
            },
            "eventDateTime": "2024-05-21T09:15:00",
            "transcriptUtterance": "Sarah Johnson suggested reaching out to potential vendors for the upcoming project."
          }
        ]
      }
    }
    ```

    | Property | Description |
    | --- | --- |
    | `meetingNotes` | Contains detailed notes of the meeting discussion as generated by Microsoft Teams Copilot. The notes include a title, summary, and detailed subpoints of the discussion. |
    | `actionItems` | Contains the action items generated from the meeting conversation. The action items include a summary of the action item and the assigned owner. |
    | `viewpoint.mentionEvents` | Contains participant-specific information from the conversation, including @mention utterances with the timestamps in the meeting when a user is mentioned, the speaker, and the utterance details. |

## Limitations

> * AI-generated insights are only available after a meeting ends. The API doesn't support accessing live notes during a meeting.

Reviewer 3: could take more than 4 hours after the meeting ends.

Author: Updated, @kanchm. I'm resolving the conversation.

## Prerequisites

* You must enable the transcription or recording for the meeting for which the insights are to be generated. You can programmatically set a meeting to autotranscribe or autorecord using the [update onlineMeeting API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-update?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http) or directly through the [meeting options](/microsoftteams/manage-meeting-recording-options#record-and-transcribe-automatically).

* The Meeting AI Insights API only works with delegated permissions and hence requires a token from a signed-in user to be passed in the call. The signed-in user must have a [Microsoft 365 Copilot license](/copilot/microsoft-365/microsoft-365-copilot-licensing) and access to the meeting’s transcript file.

## Fetch meeting insights

To fetch the insights of a particular meeting, follow these steps:

1. If you don’t have the `meetingId`, call online meeting API with the `JoinWebUrl` property to retrieve the `meetingId`. For more information, see [retrieve an online meeting by JoinWebUrl](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-get?view=graph-rest-1.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=http#example-3-retrieve-an-online-meeting-by-joinweburl).

> 1. Each transcript event of the meeting creates an associated [AI insight object](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-list-aiinsights?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true). Use the [List AI Insights API](/graph/api/onlinemeeting-list-aiinsights?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) to fetch all insight objects related to the meeting and use the included metadata in the response to select the relevant object for your scenario. Here's an example request and response:

Reviewer 4: AI insight object is also redirect to same list page. Is this correct?

    **Request**

    ```http
    GET /copilot/users/{userId}/onlineMeetings/{onlineMeetingId}/aiInsights
    ```

    **Response**

    ```json
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    
    {

>       "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#copilot/users('b935e675-5e67-48b9-8d45-249d5f88e964')/onlineMeetings('YTc3O...')/aiInsights",

Reviewer 4: Can we add placeholder here for below user id?

b935e675-5e67-48b9-8d45-249d5f88e964

Reviewer 4: YTc3O... This is online meeting id?
Can we add placeholder?

Author: Done, @ChetanSharma-msft.

    | `contentCorrelationId` | A unique identifier that correlates the [transcript](/graph/api/resources/calltranscript?&view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) of the meeting from which the insight is generated. |
    | `createdDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript was created. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in Coordinated Universal Time (UTC). |
    | `endDateTime` | The date and time at which the corresponding transcript ends. The timestamp type represents the date and time information using the ISO 8601 format and is always in UTC. |

1. Each insight object provides detailed meeting notes, action items, and participant-specific @mention utterances, which can be accessed by calling [GET AI Insights API](/graph/api/callaiinsight-get?view=graph-rest-beta&preserve-view=true) for a specific insight object ID. Here's an example request and response:

    **Request**

    ```http
    GET /copilot/users/{userId}/onlineMeetings/{onlineMeetingId}/aiInsights/{aiInsightId}
    ```

    **Response**

    ```json
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-type: application/json
    
    {

>       "@odata.context": "https://graph.microsoft.com/beta/$metadata#copilot/users('b935e675-5e67-48b9-8d45-249d5f88e964')/onlineMeetings('YTc3OT...')/aiInsights/$entity",

Reviewer 4: Can we add placeholder here for below user id?

b935e675-5e67-48b9-8d45-249d5f88e964

Reviewer 4: YTc3O... This is online meeting id?
Can we add placeholder?

Author: Done, @ChetanSharma-msft.
